apps/design/design.md, before:

# MSAL Go Design Guide

Author: John Doak(jdoak@microsoft.com)
Contributors: 
- Keegan Caruso(Keegan.Caruso@microsoft.com)
- Joel Hendrix(jhendrix@microsoft.com)
- Santiago Gonzalez(Santiago.Gonzalez@microsoft.com)

## History

The original code submitted for Go MSAL was a translation of either Java or .Net code.  This was done as a best effort by an intern who was attempting their first crack at Go.  It had a
very interesting structure that didn't fit into Go style and made it difficult to understand or
change. It used global locks, global variables, base type classes (mimicing inheritence), ...

This probably should have be re-written from scratch, but we decided to try and do it in pieces.
The lesson to be learned from this is that this type of refactor leads to re-writing the code 7 or 8 times instead of once. 

Much of this lead to a re-write where we were not seeing the forrest because of the trees. Every small change would inevitably become some 60 file refactor and have much larger ramifications than intended.  

The work could not be divided up, because the API and the internals were linked across logical
boundaries.

What has resulted should be a design that divides code into logical layers and splits
the public API from the internal structure. 

## General Structure

Public Surface:
```
apps/ - Contains all our code
  confidential/ - The confidential application API
  public/ - The public application API
  cache/ - The cache interface that can be implemented to provide persistence cache storage of credentials
```

Internals:
```
apps/
  internal/
    client/ - Shared package for common calls that Public and Confidential apps share
    json/ - Our own json encoder/decoder for special needs
    shared/ - Holds types that need to be in multiple packages and can't be moved into a single one due to import cycles
    requests/ - The pacakge to communicate to services to get tokens
```

### Use of the Go special internal/ directory

In Go, a directory called internal/ contains packages that should only be used by other packages
rooted at the same location.

This is documented here: https://golang.org/doc/go1.4#internalpackages

For example, a package .../a/b/c/internal/d/e/f can be imported only by code in the directory tree rooted at .../a/b/c. It cannot be imported by code in .../a/b/g or in any other repository.

We use this featurs quite liberally to make clear what is using an internal package.  For example:

```
apps/internal/base - Only can be used by packages defined at apps/
apps/internal/base/internal/storage - Only can be use by package client
```

## Public API

The public API will be encapsulated in apps/.  apps/ has 3 packages of interest to users:

- public/ - This is what MSAL calls the Public Application Client (service client)
- confidential/ - This is what MSAL calls the Confidential Application Client (service)
- cache/ - This provides the interfaces that must be implemented to create peristent caches for any MSAL client

## Internals

In this section we will be talking about internal/.

### JSON Handling

JSON must be handled specially in our app. The basics are, if we receive fields that our
structs do not contain, we cannot drop them.  We must send them back to the service.

To handle that, we use our own custom json package that handles this.

See the design at: [Design](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go/blob/dev/internal/json/design.md)

### Backend communication

Communication to the backends is done via the requests/ package. oauth.Token is the client
for all communication.

oauth.Token communicates via REST calls that are encapsulated in the ops/ client.

## Adding A Feature

This is the general way to add a new feature to MSAL:

- Add the REST calls to ops.REST
- Add the higher level manipulations to oauth.Token
- Add your logic to the app/\<client\> and access the services via your oauth.Token

## Notable Differences To Other Clients

### TBD: Confidential applications needs to handle multiple users without one big cache

The MSAL caching design is rather simple. These design decisions and the fact that multiple applications in different languages can share a cache mean it cannot be easily changed.

The entire cache contents of a confidential.Client is read and written on 
almost any action to and from an external cache. 

It is not clear to a user that a confidential client should be per user to prevent scaling
problems. 

We cannot change the MSAL cache design at this time, therefore it should be clear that
confidential.Client should be done per user. This must go beyond a simple doc entry
that can be ignored. Its great to say: "we told you in the doc", but that is AFTER a support call.

TBD ...

### Use of x509.Certificate and CertFromPEM() function

The original version of this package used an thumbprint and a private key to do authorizations
based on a certificate. But there wasn't a real way to get a thumbprint.

A thumbprint is defined in the Oauth spec, which we had to track down. It is an SHA-1 hash
from the x509 certificate's DER encdoed ASN1 bytes. 

Since the user was going to need the x509, we moved to having the user provide the x509.Certificate
object. 

We wrote the thumbprint creator for the internals. 

Since we also require the private key and it is not straightforward to get, we added a CertFromPEM()
function that will extract the x509.Certificate and private key. We did support encrypted PEM.

It should be noted that Keyvault stores things in PKCS12 and PEM. Keyvault is not straight forward
in how it works. Frankly, I'm in serious doubt that a regular Go user can get certs out of
Keyvault's Go API.  

Before I began working on MSAL I was re-writing the Keyvault Go API.  https://github.com/element-of-surprise/keyvault . It does the right things to extract cers for TLS now. 
I was still working on the Cert() API and hadn't exposed the public surface when I stopped.

Since we have representation from the Go SDK team, we might have them go bridge this problem in
the current implementation using some of that code so its possible for our users to store the
cert in Keyvault.

## Notes:

Do we need: AcquireTokenSilent()??  Seems like we could just bake this into other acquire calls automatically????

Commit message:

Logging audit and logging docs

apps/design/design.md, after:

# MSAL Go Design Guide

Author: John Doak(jdoak@microsoft.com)
Contributors: 
- Keegan Caruso(Keegan.Caruso@microsoft.com)
- Joel Hendrix(jhendrix@microsoft.com)
- Santiago Gonzalez(Santiago.Gonzalez@microsoft.com)
- Bogdan Gavril (bogavril@microsoft.com)

## History

The original code submitted for Go MSAL was a translation of either Java or .Net code.  This was done as a best effort by an intern who was attempting their first crack at Go.  It had a
very interesting structure that didn't fit into Go style and made it difficult to understand or
change. It used global locks, global variables, base type classes (mimicing inheritence), ...

This probably should have be re-written from scratch, but we decided to try and do it in pieces.
The lesson to be learned from this is that this type of refactor leads to re-writing the code 7 or 8 times instead of once. 

Much of this lead to a re-write where we were not seeing the forrest because of the trees. Every small change would inevitably become some 60 file refactor and have much larger ramifications than intended.  

The work could not be divided up, because the API and the internals were linked across logical
boundaries.

What has resulted should be a design that divides code into logical layers and splits
the public API from the internal structure. 

## General Structure

Public Surface:
```
apps/ - Contains all our code
  confidential/ - The confidential application API
  public/ - The public application API
  cache/ - The cache interface that can be implemented to provide persistence cache storage of credentials
```

Internals:
```
apps/
  internal/
    client/ - Shared package for common calls that Public and Confidential apps share
    json/ - Our own json encoder/decoder for special needs
    shared/ - Holds types that need to be in multiple packages and can't be moved into a single one due to import cycles
    requests/ - The pacakge to communicate to services to get tokens
```

### Use of the Go special internal/ directory

In Go, a directory called internal/ contains packages that should only be used by other packages
rooted at the same location.

This is documented here: https://golang.org/doc/go1.4#internalpackages

For example, a package .../a/b/c/internal/d/e/f can be imported only by code in the directory tree rooted at .../a/b/c. It cannot be imported by code in .../a/b/g or in any other repository.

We use this featurs quite liberally to make clear what is using an internal package.  For example:

```
apps/internal/base - Only can be used by packages defined at apps/
apps/internal/base/internal/storage - Only can be use by package client
```

## Public API

The public API will be encapsulated in apps/.  apps/ has 3 packages of interest to users:

- public/ - This is what MSAL calls the Public Application Client (service client)
- confidential/ - This is what MSAL calls the Confidential Application Client (service)
- cache/ - This provides the interfaces that must be implemented to create peristent caches for any MSAL client

## Internals

In this section we will be talking about internal/.

### JSON Handling

JSON must be handled specially in our app. The basics are, if we receive fields that our
structs do not contain, we cannot drop them.  We must send them back to the service.

To handle that, we use our own custom json package that handles this.

See the design at: [Design](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-go/blob/dev/internal/json/design.md)

### Backend communication

Communication to the backends is done via the requests/ package. oauth.Token is the client
for all communication.

oauth.Token communicates via REST calls that are encapsulated in the ops/ client.

## Adding A Feature

This is the general way to add a new feature to MSAL:

- Add the REST calls to ops.REST
- Add the higher level manipulations to oauth.Token
- Add your logic to the app/\<client\> and access the services via your oauth.Token

## Notable Differences To Other Clients

### TBD: Confidential applications needs to handle multiple users without one big cache

The MSAL caching design is rather simple. These design decisions and the fact that multiple applications in different languages can share a cache mean it cannot be easily changed.

The entire cache contents of a confidential.Client is read and written on 
almost any action to and from an external cache. 

It is not clear to a user that a confidential client should be per user to prevent scaling
problems. 

We cannot change the MSAL cache design at this time, therefore it should be clear that
confidential.Client should be done per user. This must go beyond a simple doc entry
that can be ignored. Its great to say: "we told you in the doc", but that is AFTER a support call.

TBD ...

### Use of x509.Certificate and CertFromPEM() function

The original version of this package used an thumbprint and a private key to do authorizations
based on a certificate. But there wasn't a real way to get a thumbprint.

A thumbprint is defined in the Oauth spec, which we had to track down. It is an SHA-1 hash
from the x509 certificate's DER encdoed ASN1 bytes. 

Since the user was going to need the x509, we moved to having the user provide the x509.Certificate
object. 

We wrote the thumbprint creator for the internals. 

Since we also require the private key and it is not straightforward to get, we added a CertFromPEM()
function that will extract the x509.Certificate and private key. We did support encrypted PEM.

It should be noted that Keyvault stores things in PKCS12 and PEM. Keyvault is not straight forward
in how it works. Frankly, I'm in serious doubt that a regular Go user can get certs out of
Keyvault's Go API.  

Before I began working on MSAL I was re-writing the Keyvault Go API.  https://github.com/element-of-surprise/keyvault . It does the right things to extract cers for TLS now. 
I was still working on the Cert() API and hadn't exposed the public surface when I stopped.

Since we have representation from the Go SDK team, we might have them go bridge this problem in
the current implementation using some of that code so its possible for our users to store the
cert in Keyvault.

## Logging

All logging is done using the `fmt` package. For errors, see [error design](../errors/error_design.md).

This library does not log personal identifiable information (PII). For a definition of PII, see https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/trust-center/privacy/customer-data-definitions. MSAL Go does not log any of the 3 data categories listed there. 

The library may log information related to your organization, such as tenant id, authority, client id etc. as well as information that cannot be tied to a user such as request correlation id, HTTP status codes etc.
